All right, time to build a server.
So if you're adept at how
to launch a server, and
you want to use a different language
than Go, you can follow along and
not use Go because the server will
not be a huge part of the code today.
Well, actually, I mean,
it will be about half the code today,
the other half will be literally HTML.
All I need is that your server
should be able to produce HTML,
you should be able to respond
with various status codes.
You should be able to make routes with
params i.e like contacts with ID.
You should be able to read query
parameters, form parameters,
anything like that.
And you should be able to create verb
based routes, GET, POST, DELETE.
So as long as you can do that and you
feel like you can keep up, then use that.
That's one of the beauties of HTMX is
that you don't have any requirements
on the server.
Choose whatever language you want,
whatever you're most comfortable with.
It has absolutely no decisions or
thoughts about what a server should do.
And I think that that is very,
very important part of HTMX.
There you go.
So where do we start?
Well, I think the best place to
start is usually the beginning.
So we're gonna create a very simple
HTTP server and an index page and
then upgraded to use HTMX to give like
the very first kind of introduction.
I know in today's world,
templates are not sexy.
No one says, hey, everybody,
let's use templates.
Everyone wants that JSX
that RSX that JESX,
that's Go's version of JSX,
which does actually exist.
They are simple,
they can become annoying, and
I fully agree templates
sometimes are annoying.
But so are other options,
every option has its trade off.
I intentionally chose templates
because of the same reason above.
I want zero dependencies and
I want this as simple as possible.
Anyone with any reasonable amount of
programming experience can look at
a template and pretty much figure out
what's happening, and that's that.
Which also means I'm gonna try to do
everything as grub-brain as possible.
I'm just gonna have one thing in the file
for the templates and one file for
the server.
We're not trying to do
good programming here.
But if I were to use something and I
wanted something a little bit more spicy,
I would consider using
something like temple.
Temple is pretty cool.
It's an impossible word to Google for.
So you try to go Google Go Lang Temple,
you'll probably not get the results that
you're looking for, it's quite surprising.
So if you ever get interested in it,
it's just literally temple.guide.
And then you get this whole great
little thing about how to build it.
So you get to use something
that looks like JSX,
you can only use string interpolation,
all that fun stuff.
It's actually pretty good.
I had a great time of
playing around with it.
All right, now back to our regular
scheduled programming, and
that's gonna be, and so our task is to
display a count that represents how many
times a page has been requested.
So let's first start with the view,
the delicious HTML.
So I'm going to jump in here,
I'm going to open it up at the base and
I'm going to go down to views.
Don't worry about what's in blocks,
we'll come there later, okay?
And I'm just gonna create
a new file called index.html.
I'm sure everyone can join in.
Now, me personally, I love naming
every one of the blocks in a file.
I don't know what it is about it, but
I like having names for my templates.
So I'm going to go block index this and
there you go,
I've named my block, perfect.
And so I'm gonna create a quick HTML5
document, pretty straightforward.
And all we're going to do is
just put a count in there, so
that should be as simple as Count Count.
Now if you're unfamiliar
with Go templating,
these little two squirrely braces on each
side, simply say, hey, what's in here?
I think it's actually Lisp
that gets executed in there.
So practically old camel, but
what's inside of here, simply I'm saying,
hey, whatever objects passed in,
give me the property count off of it.
All right, so
now we need to set up the server.
You need to definitely get
these two items installed.
This is just echo, it's just a really
simple server as far as I can tell.
I think they have a decent
amount of features.
If during your time you're using echo and
you keep seeing an error popping up on
your import,
despite you doing a go get of that item,
just execute a go mod tidy,
it cleans things up.
I'm not really sure what a go mod tidy
does other than it must organize your
files, make sure you're using all
the things that you said you're using, and
then ensures that they're installed.
That's my guess on what it does.
And I'm sure the gophers can validate and
or tell me I'm wrong.
But that's pretty much
what I guess happens.
All right, so we're gonna come back here.
Okay, so
I'm gonna execute those two things,
go get github echo lab V4, and
go get echo lab V4 middleware.
It's going to probably
do those two things,
I think I already technically accidentally
have them already installed, fantastic.
We're gonna go to the command directory.
I'm gonna open this up and
just create a main.go.
So, you can see right here,
touch command main.go, awesome.
Create a little quick package main,
a quick func main, awesome.
And I'm just gonna start using it
as if echo is here, so echo, echo,
open up a new echo.
Make sure it's v4,
as you can see, I'm using v4,
don't accidentally use something else.
There we go, New, let's see,
we're gonna use a middleware.
Look at that co-pilot already
knows exactly what we want to do.
Add the middleware here.
So look at this I am having that same
problem that I was talking about how it's
just like, I don't know what this is,
I don't believe any of this stuff exists.
I'm gonna do a little go mod tidy,
everything should be nice there.
All right, fantastic.
And usually that goes away,
there we go, fantastic.
And I'm not using the correct middleware,
look at that, see?
V4, there we go, [SOUND].
So everything's going good now.
Now this is the only part of the course
that has a whole bunch of programming
that's not really about programming the
problem, it's about setting up a project.
So if you've never used templates or echo,
you can set it up such that echo can take
in a template renderer and it just makes
programming down the road a touch easier.
So I'm gonna do a couple things.
First, I'm gonna create a quick
struct called templates, why not?
And it's gonna be pretty easy,
I'm gonna call it, there we go,
copilot pretty much auto
completes it all for you.
Make sure you get the HTML template.
There we go.
I am going to add, look at this,
it's copilot already knows,
that's the one,
that's the one I want right there.
You wanna create this function called
render that is based off the templates and
it will simply have an IO Writer.
It's gonna have a name.
It's going to have the data for
the template,
and it's gonna have the context from echo,
it returns an error.
Pretty much how echo works is just that
it has functions that return errors,
usually takes in a context, return
out an error, that's pretty standard.
And I'm just gonna execute the template,
and that means I'm gonna write to
the writer whatever's in the template and
pass in the data and everything.
So it kind of takes care
of all this stuff for you.
And then I also usually like to do like a
new templates, I don't know why I like to
do this kind of stuff and copilot too
is really good at auto completing it.
Just create a new templates that ensures
that we are able to parse out the HTML.
All of our HTML is in the views folder,
so I have it in the views folder,
there we go.
So if you're familiar with
a different way to produce views and
to use a different server, again, you
can even use a different server and go,
I don't really care, long as you can just
do your basic verb routing and everything.
So I think we have everything we need at
this point to produce a delicious route.
So I'm going to go down here, and
I'll leave this up for one more moment,
let everyone try to catch up.
If you're using co pilot it should,
if you have echo imported, and
you just start typing templates pretty
much everything will be auto-completed
because this pattern just exists
thousands of times on the internet.
So it can pretty much recognize
it right off the rip, awesome.
All right, so now all we're gonna
is I'm gonna set up a renderer, so
I'm just gonna say, hey,
renderer here's a new template, so
all a renderer needs to be has a renderer
function with that same arguments
that I said above, a writer, a name,
data, and the context, boom.
So now we can start using that renderer
really easily within the go routes
going off the context.
All right, so we're gonna do an e.GET and
I am going to pass in a function that
takes a echo context, returns an error,
pretty much everything that I said.
And now we just simply need
to render out the index.html.
Now, if you remember, you may not
remember, but we expect an object that
has a dot count property on it and
we're going to render that property.
So I'm going to jump back here and
we need to create that struct, so
I'm gonna go type Count struct
that has a Count int, fantastic.
And then I'm gonna create
a count = Count Count 0,
I think that's how you do these
specifications, there we go.
Too many languages bounced
around in my head.
So every single time count or
slash is requested I'm gonna
increment the count and
then I'm gonna render the index template.
Remember, I named all my blocks,
so this is the index block.
I'm just going to render it out,
there we go.
I want a 200, I want the name template and
here's the object I want to use for
that template, fantastic.
That's why we did all that work up above,
make this park kind of easy right here so
everyone should be able to follow along.
At the end of the day this is
the code we had to write, fantastic.
And if we've done everything correctly,
which we have one more item which look at
that copilot just knows, it just knows we
have to do this e Logger Fatal we have to
actually listen now, so I'll go on
port 42069 and we'll go over here and
do a little local host 42069,
you'll start it, site can't be reached.
Why can't it be reached?
You didn't actually start the program.
You gotta start the program, okay?
It's that simple.
So in a second terminal, just type in air.
Air has all the configuration for
this project to just watch.
So if we change any files,
including HTML files,
it will automatically
recompile our server.
It's super fast,
this makes it really easy.
You probably won't be able to get to the
browser in time from your editor before Go
has already reloaded.
Goes super fast,
it'll make this pretty easy.
So when I refresh, it's count one.
It's count two, it's count three, four,
five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten,
all the way up to whatever number we want.
There's all of our logs,
because we use the logger.
So we may need to use this for debugging
at some point during this course.
There we go, fantastic.
Okay, so we've done it, we have built
step one, which is the counter.
>> That command was just air?
>> Air, yeah, A-I-R.
So once you did that go install air,
it will make it publicly available.
You may need to do a hash dash r or
you may need to make sure that wherever
the go bin path is is within your path.
So if you don't have air,
air is effectively node mon, yeah,
that's a fair way to put it.
Air is kind of or
maybe it's a little bit better to say air
is more like Webpack dev serve, is having
everything, it's watching everything.
The moment you make a change,
it's redoing, it's the vibe of Go.
In case I forgot how to program,
here's all the things.
Look, that's pretty much, I pretty much
program the exact same thing each time.
All right, fantastic.